# Smart-Car-parking-IOT-Blynk-
It is a smart car parking model which was build as a college project.
<h1>Project Description</h1>
Seeking a vacant parking space during peak hours in areas like Hospitals, Hotels & Shopping Centres, Airports, Universities, and Exhibitions & Convention Centre has always been frustrating for many drivers. Surveys says that traffic generated by cars searching for vacancies in Parking Spaces is up to 40% of the total traffic [1]. Now that is a serious issue to look after, and Smart Parking System is one of the best available solutions to at least reduce the traffic congestion caused due to the above problem. This application gives information about the occupancy status of the spaces in the parking lot equipped with sensors that detect the presence of vehicles. Smart Parking is an Internet of Things (IoT) based application, used to detect the available parking slots. This app uses ultrasonic sensor to detect the presence of a vehicle (whether the parking slot is occupied or not).

 Based on the parking slot occupancy, the status (occupied/unoccupied) is displayed on the web application dashboard. In real time, the environment have sensors and devices embedded into parking spaces, transmitting data on the occupancy status; and the vehicle drivers can search for parking availability using their mobile phones or any infotainment system that is attached to the vehicle. Hence the driver would know where there is an available spot to park his vehicle in less time, reducing the energy consumption and air pollution. 

The second part in this application is doing analysis on parking trends in a parking lot. The analysis gives information about which parking space is most occupied and least occupied and at what times of the day. This information is helpful in choosing one parking space when there are multiple available, keeping in mind the history of that space. For example, when there are more than one vacant slots the driver will want to choose the one that has less occupancy rate because the high occupancy rated slot might be wanted by many other drivers and you don't want to waste your time reaching that slot. 

Software Requirement

Operating System: Windows 7, Windows 8 or Windows 10 
IDE: Arduino software 
Application Server: Blynk app

Web Service: GITHUB 
Database: Blynk library
Browser: Chrome or Firefox or Internet Explorer

<h1>Hardware Requirement Processor:</h1>
 Intel core i3 or above 
 Higher RAM:4 GB or above

Users who want to use the application can directly deploy the war file in Arduino Uno and run the app using localhost with the port number that is configured during installation of the web server. The path to the web application is passed along with localhost to the application.

